ANTOINE BAUZA

“All good things of this earth flow into the city.” (Pericles)

You are a leader of one of the seven greatest cities in Antiquity.
Develop your city by increasing your scientific discoveries, military conquests,
commercial agreements, and prestigious structures to lead your civilization to glory!
All the while, keep an eye on your neighbors’ progress since they share similar ambitions.
Will your wonder transcend the millennia to come?

OVERVIEW OF THE GAME

CONTENTS

A game plays over 3 rounds, called Ages, during which you simultaneously play cards
one by one to develop your City.
These cards represent the different Buildings you can construct: resource production,
civil, commercial, military, scientific, and guild Buildings.

• 7 Wonder boards
• 148 Age cards: 49 Age I cards, 49 Age II cards, and 50 Age III cards
• 78 Coins: 54 Coins worth 1 and 24 Coins worth 3
• 48 Military Conflict tokens: 24 Defeats and 24 Victories (8 per Age)
• 1 score pad
• 3 Description of Effects sheets
• 1 List of cards and chains sheet
• This rulebook

At the end of each Age, head to war with your two neighbors. At the close of 3 Ages,
count your total victory points provided by your City, Wonder, military prowess,
and Treasure. The player with the highest score wins the game.

ELEMENTS OF THE GAME
AGE CARDS

WONDER BOARD

Age cards represent Buildings you can construct during the game.
The back of each card indicates to which Age the card belongs (Age I, Age II, and Age III).

Each board represents a Wonder you can construct during the game.
Wonders have a Day side     and a Night side     showing two, three, or four different
construction stages.
Each construction stage has a cost and an effect.
Your Wonder board will also provide you with a starting resource.

There are seven different types of cards:
• Brown cards (Basic Materials) provide common resources:
Clay   , Stone   ,  Ore   ,  and Wood   .

Name

• Grey cards (Manufactured Products) provide rare resources:
Glass   , Cloth   , and Papyrus   .
• Blue cards (Civil Buildings) provide victory points  

Day or
Night
side

Starting
resource

.

• Yellow cards (Commercial Buildings) provide commercial advantages.
• Red cards (Military Buildings) increase your military strength  

.

• Green cards (Science Buildings) provide scientific advancements
in three domains:   ,   , and   .

Cost

• Purple cards (Guilds) provide victory points  

Effect

  according to certain conditions.

Construction
stage 1

On the front of each Age card is a cost zone, an effect, a name, a colorblind friendly symbol,
possibly one or two chain symbols, and a minimum number of players required.
On the back is the number of the Age and the direction for passing.

Colorblind
symbol

Front

Military Conflict tokens represent your Military Victories and Defeats.
There are four types of Military Conflict tokens:
• Military Defeat -1 tokens
• Military Victory +1 tokens
• Military Victory +3 tokens
• Military Victory +5 tokens

Chain
symbols

Effect

Construction
stage 3

MILITARY CONFLICT TOKENS

Back

Building
name

Construction
stage 2

Cost zone

COINS

Number
of the Age

Coins represent your Treasure. They are worth 1 or 3.
Note: In these rules, when you see “x Coins,” the “x” corresponds to the total value of your
Coins. In other words, “Take x Coins” means you take Coins worth a total of x.

Direction
for passing

Minimum
players
required

DESCRIPTION OF EFFECTS SHEETS
These sheets provide a complete explanation of all the symbols in the game.

SCORE PAD

COLORBLIND FRIENDLY SYMBOLS

This score pad is used at the end of the game to count
your victory points and determine a winner.

To accommodate every type of colorblindness, each card color
used in the game has a corresponding symbol.
Brown    

Grey     Blue    

Yellow    

Red    

Green    

LIST OF CARDS AND CHAINS SHEET

Purple

This sheet is for your information.

2

or
t

SETUP
1

2

Prepare the Age cards:

• Separate the Age cards into three decks: Age I, Age II, and Age III.

Each player randomly takes a Wonder Board and places it in front of themself,
picking their preferred side (   Day or     Night).
Note: For your first few games, we recommend using the Day side of the Wonder
boards. For any following games, feel free to mix Day and Night sides. If you like,
you can also choose Wonder boards instead of distributing them randomly.

• For each Age, sort the cards by the minimum number of players required and
keep only the cards with a number less than or equal to the number of players.
Put the other cards back in the box, they will not be used during the game.
Example: In a 5-player game, keep all cards with 3+, 4+, and 5+ in each deck of Age cards.
• In the Age III deck, take all the Purple cards. Randomly draw as many cards from
these as the number of players +2 and keep them face down. Add these cards
to the other Age III cards. Put the other Purple cards back in the box, they will not be
used during the game.
Example: In a 5-player game, you will randomly draw 7 Purple cards (5 players + 2).

3

Take 3 Coins (worth 1) and place them on your Wonder board. These Coins make
up your starting Treasure. Place the leftover Coins in the middle of the table
to make the Coin reserve.

4

Place all of the Military Conflict tokens in the middle of the table to make
the Military Conflict token reserve.

5

All other game contents are put back in the box and will not be used during this game.

• Shuffle each deck of Age cards and put them face down in the middle of the table.

SETUP EXAMPLE
FOR 5 PLAYERS

Discard

4

Military Conflict
token reserve

Coin
reserve

3

1

Age cards

3
The neighbor
on your left

2

Your Treasure
The neighbor
on your right

Your Wonder

3

GAMEPLAY
A game plays over three successive rounds: Age I, Age II, then Age III. Each round plays in a similar fashion. Victory points are scored at the end of Age III.
Definitions:
Neighbors: The term “neighbors” refers to the player directly on your left and the player directly on your right.
City: The term “City” refers to your developments, which includes your Wonder and constructed cards.

OVERVIEW OF AN AGE
At the start of each Age, take the corresponding deck of cards (I, II, or III) and randomly deal 7 cards to each player face down.
These cards will make up your starting hand.
Each Age has 6 turns during which you all play simultaneously. A turn is comprised of three stages, which happen in this order:
1. Choose a card
2. Play this card
3. Pass your hand

B. Construct a stage of your Wonder

1. CHOOSE A CARD

To construct a stage of your Wonder, pay only the cost shown on your Wonder board
for this stage (see Construct in 7 Wonders pages 6-7).
Put your card face down under your board so that half is covered by the stage
of the Wonder you are constructing. The effect of this stage is now available to you
for the rest of the game.

Take stock of the cards in your hand without showing them to the other players.
From these cards, choose 1 and place it face down in front of you.
Set the remaining cards aside face down. They will be used later.

2. PLAY THIS CARD
When everyone has chosen a card, play them simultaneously.
You can use this card to complete one single action from the ones listed below:
A. Construct the Building on your card
B. Construct a stage of your Wonder
C. Sell the card

Cost

Note: At the start of your first game, we recommend paying attention to everyone’s actions,
playing one after another, to familiarize yourself with the game.

A. Construct the Building on your card

Note: You can use any card to construct a Wonder stage and this card has no other use besides
activating the effect of this stage.

To construct the Building on your card, pay any listed costs and place it face up above
your Wonder board (see Constructing in 7 Wonders pages 6-7). Once built, the Building
will remain in your City until the end of the game.

Wonder stages can be constructed at any moment during the game. In other words,
you can construct the first stage of your Wonder in Age I, II, or III. However, you are
required to construct the stages of your Wonder from left to right (stage 1 before
stage 2, then stage 2 before stage 3).

Important: You can never construct two identical Buildings, meaning no two cards
in your City can have the same name.

CARD PLACEMENT IN YOUR CITY

Note: Constructing stages of your Wonder is optional.

C. Sell the card

Stack cards of the same color making sure to keep their effects visible
and stack resources above your starting resource.
(See example on page 8).

To gain Coins, you can sell your card. To do so, discard your card face down
in the middle of the table (onto a pile that makes up the discard) and take 3 Coins
from the reserve that you add to your Treasure.

4

3. PASS YOUR HAND

SIXTH AND LAST TURN

When all players have completed their action, take the cards you did not choose and
give them to the neighbor on your left (during Ages I and III) or to the neighbor on your
right (during Age II). The direction for passing is shown on the back of the Age cards.

At the start of the sixth and last turn of each Age, you will receive a hand of 2 cards
from your neighbor. Choose 1 of these cards and discard the other face down
to the discard pile. The discarded card does not give you any Coins.
Play your sixth and last card as normal.

You will therefore receive a hand of cards from your neighbor. These cards will
make up your new hand of cards for the next turn. You will have one fewer cards
each turn, and will ultimately have only two on the last turn.

Continue to the Resolution of Military Conflicts.

RESOLUTION OF MILITARY CONFLICTS
Example: At the end of Age II, your military strength is 4. The strength of the neighbor
on your left is 5 and the strength of the one to your right is 2. You suffer a Defeat
against the neighbor on your left and therefore take a Military Defeat token.
You emerge as the victor of the Conflict against the neighbor on your right
and take a Victory token for Age II.

Each Age ends with the Resolution of Military Conflicts.
Count all military symbols     on cards you have constructed and those on your Wonder
board, if any, to determine your military strength. Then compare your total military
strength with that of each of your neighbors.
For each neighbor:
• If your military strengths are equal, neither one of you takes a token.
• If your military strength is lower, take a Military Defeat token.
• If your military strength is higher, take the Military Victory token that corresponds
to the current Age.

Defeat

Age I

Age II

Neighbor on your left

Your City in Age II

Neighbor on your right

Age III

Military strength = 5

After the Resolution of Conflicts, the current Age ends and you continue to the next Age.
After the Resolution of Conflicts in Age III, continue to the End of the game (page 8).

Military strength = 4

Defeat

5

Victory

Military strength = 2

CONSTRUCTING IN 7 WONDERS
During the entire game, you will have the option of constructing Buildings
or Wonder stages. To do this, you must pay the corresponding construction cost,
shown on the cost zone of cards or each of the Wonder stages.

C. RESOURCE COST
Certain cards and Wonder stages require one or more resources to be constructed.
You can use resources produced by your City and/or buy resources from your neighbors.

Reminder: You can never construct two identical Buildings, meaning you cannot have
two cards with the same name in your City.

Important: Resources used for constructing are never lost and can be used on every turn
of the entire game.

There are different types of costs:

Card

A. No cost
B. Coin cost
C. Resource cost
D. Free cost through chains

A. NO COST

Cost:
1 Wood

Wonder stage

Cost:
2 Ore

If the cost zone is empty, the card is free and requires no resources or Coins
to be constructed.

Using resources produced by your City

You produce one resource per resource symbol shown in your City: starting resource
on your Wonder board, Grey, Brown, and Yellow cards, and certain Wonder stages.
Each resource symbol can only be used once per turn.

Cost:
None

Example: You produce 2 Stones, 1 Ore, and 1 Papyrus. You can therefore construct
the Barracks since your City produces 1 Ore, or the Scriptorium since your City
also produces 1 Papyrus. However, you cannot construct the Guard Tower
since you do not produce Clay.

B. COIN COST
Certain cards cost 1 Coin. Take 1 Coin from your Treasure and place it in the reserve
when constructing the Building on the card.

Cost:
1 Coin

6

Buying resources from a neighboring City

D. FREE COST THROUGH CHAINS

If your City does not produce the resources needed to construct a card or Wonder
stage, check your neighbors’ Cities. If they produce the resources you need, you can buy
these resources from them.

Starting in Age II, certain cards have a free construction condition shown as a chain
symbol. If you have previously constructed a card with the same symbol in the upper
right corner, you can construct this card for free.

For each resource bought, give 2 Coins to the owner of the resource.
This player keeps their card and can still use the resource you just bought.

Example: In Age I, if you constructed the Theater in your City, you can construct the Gardens
in Age III for free, since you have the corresponding chain symbol.

Each resource symbol can only be bought once per turn by the same player.
Resources must be used on the same turn as they were bought.

Age I

Resources you can buy from your neighbors include:
• The starting resource on their Wonder board;
• Resources on their Brown cards;
• Resources on their Grey cards.
It is impossible to buy resources produced by their Yellow cards or the stages
of their Wonder.

Age III

Symbol of
identical
chain

If your neighbor has a card that produces a choice of 1 resource from two resources
shown, you can choose which one to buy, regardless of what your neighbor has chosen.
Notes:
• To buy resources, you must spend the required Coins at the beginning of your turn.
You cannot use Coins you receive from other players during the same turn.
• You cannot buy resources from a Building your neighbor constructed that same turn.
• You can never prevent a player from buying your resources.
• Both of your neighbors can buy the same resource from your City.

Notes:
• If you do not have the symbol that corresponds to a card’s chain, you can still construct
this card by paying its resource cost.
• Certain cards grant access to two chains; in this case, you will see two symbols in the upper
right corner of the card.

7

END OF THE GAME
The game ends at the close of Age III, after the Resolution of Military Conflicts. Proceed with counting victory points by using the score pad. The player with the highest score wins
the game. If there is a tie, the player with the most Treasure wins. If there is still a tie, all tied players share the victory.

COUNTING VICTORY POINTS
Use the score pad to count your victory points.

6 Green Cards
Count all of the science symbols in your City and on constructed stages of your Wonder, if any.
These symbols provide victory points in two different ways which will be added together.

1 Wonder Board
Add victory points from constructed stages of your Wonder.
2 Treasure
Earn 1 victory point for each complete set of 3 Coins in your Treasure.

• Identical symbols: Check how many identical symbols you have for each type
of symbol and refer to the table below:

3 Military Conflicts
Add the value of all your Military Defeat and Victory tokens to determine your score
for Military Conflicts (the total may be a negative number).

Number of identical symbols

1

2

3

4

5

6

Victory points

1

4

9

16

25

36

4 Blue Cards
Add victory points on Blue cards in your City.

• Sets of 3 different symbols: For each complete set of 3 different science symbols,
gain 7 victory points.

5 Yellow Cards
Add any victory points on Yellow cards in your City, according to the effects described
on the cards (see Description of Effects sheet).

7 Purple Cards
Add victory points on Purple cards in your City, according to the effects described
on the cards (see Description of Effects sheet).

4
5

6
7 points (1 set of 3 different symbols)

Alex

Name

9 points

3
2

1

1 point
(1 symbol)

2 points

6 points

9 points
(3 identical
symbols)

2

4 points
(2 identical
symbols)

3
4

7

5

3 points (3 sets of 3 Coins)

6
10 points

7

1

4 points

CREDITS

Designer: Antoine Bauza • Illustrator: Miguel Coimbra
Development and publication: Cédrick Caumont & Thomas Provoost aka « Les Belges à Sombreros »
and the Repos Production team.
Complete credits online: www.7wonders.net/credits

Total
victory points

10
3
6
9
2
21
4
55

© REPOS PRODUCTION 2020. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Repos Production SA • Rue des Comédiens, 22 • 1000 Brussels – Belgium
+32 471 95 41 32 • www.rprod.com
Gamegenic and the Gamegenic logo are ® and © Gamegenic GmbH, Germany.

8

The contents of this game can only be used for purposes of strictly personal and private entertainment.

